We are going to work on Oracle Database

Oracle database has three things
1.Database Mode
-> If we want to access the database what kind of mode our database need to be
2.DB Logical View
->How we are going to see the data in the database, ( to have some kind of picturization of the data in our mind)
3.DB Objects
-> What are the list of objects can be present in the database

1.Database Mode
->There are three kinds of Mode
    1.Open (or) Read Write Mode: It is accessible to the users, where users can open, read, write in the database
    2.Mount mode: Only DBA can access the database, where DBA can do some maintenance/upgradation/migration activites
    3.Inactive mode: No one can access/use the database, this is where pre-requisites are done before mounting the database    

    Example: Potter man 
        1.Sand/clay is a database which is of no use, --> inactive mode
        2.Clay Pottery, here database is being prepared (like creation,updation,delection etc) for use --> mount Mode
        3.Pot, here database is ready to use -->Open Mode


2.DB Logical View
    ->Here we are going to see the data in the database in a picturized way

Database -> TableSpace -> Segment -> Block

In a large databse, there are table spaces which are logical storage units, 
    then these tablespaces are divided into segments,
        then these segments are divided into blocks.
**The smallest respresentation inside a database is a Block

    Example:Apartments
        1.Apartments, it is like a server, where we have multiple blocks of Apartments i.e, multiple databases are present
        ->>Blocks per apartment i.e, databases per server
        2.In each apartment block, we have floors per block i.e, tablespaces
        ->>Floors per block i.e, tablespaces for database
        3.In each floor, we have multiple flats divided according to the size of the floor i.e, segments
        ->>Flats per floor i.e, segments for Database
        4.In each flat, we have multiple rooms i.e, blocks
        ->>Rooms per flat i.e, blocks for database  

3.DB objects
    ->These are the list of objects that we can find inside the database
Tables
Views
Functions
Indexes
Sequences
Materialized views
Triggers
Stored Procedures
Packages

These are the list of objects that we can find inside the database

1.Tables
Any data we put in the database it has to stored in some form ( like tables )

Since ORACLE database is RDBMS system, ( Relational Database management system ) so everything inside this Oracle database is stored in a tabular format.

2.Views
Views are virtual tables. 

When you need a set of data in a single table from combination of different tables, in such cases you can write that particular query and you can store the query inside the database and the there will be this table according to the query you wrote created already ( in virtualised format ) so whenever you run that particular query this table appears.  This is how views can be used. 

View is query which can refer one or more tables from different multiple tables and gives result as a table

3. Functions
These are small logical parts.
Whenever we apply these functions they give the results according to the logic

4. Indexes, they are used for fast retrievals
They are helpful for users.
Indexes help to retrieve the data from the databases in fast manner. 
When there is large database, this indexing methodology helps to easy and faster 

5.Sequences
These generate series of numbers
Used to give numbering

6.Materialized views
Tables hold data, views are virtual queries, when we want to store the data of this virtual query inside a database here comes this materialized views, 
Result of view and the query are stored they are called as materialised views.

7.Triggers
Action based on a event is trigger.
When we change some data of a particular table, which has a relevant data and impacts other tables this trigger does the required actions.

8.Stored Procedures
These are combination of some operations and logical units that performs an action . These procedures are put up and referred inside or outside a package.


9.Packages
And the results are then put up into different packages


